README.md, before:

![Filament User Listing Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/edit-user-darkmode.jpg)

# Filament

A lightweight admin for your Laravel app.

#### **_This package is in very active development – I would love help to make it awesome!_**

## Notes

### Keep it Minimal

The theme of this admin is "Light and Fast" – just enough to get you started and creating your next project – keeping setup to a minimum with hardly any changes to the default Laravel app. Let's use as little Javascript as possible by adhereing to using [Livewire](https://laravel-livewire.com) as much as possible (using [Alpine JS](https://github.com/alpinejs/alpine) when absolutely needed and use [Spruce](https://github.com/ryangjchandler/spruce) for some simple state management between front-end components when absolutely necessary).

### Roadmap

> This is more of a proposed feature list then a solid roadmap. I am _totally open_ to new ideas, with the overall goal of keeping this core package pretty minimal allowing total customization via your main Laravel app / additional add-on packages.

- Setup tests (via [Testbench Component](https://github.com/orchestral/testbench)) and start creating them for existing features.
  - _I'm going to be very honest here, I don't know much about testing within a package, so this will be completely new to me and I would really appreciate some help on getting things setup for best practices etc._
- [✓] <strike>Update the `User` model to implement [laravel-metable](https://github.com/plank/laravel-metable), allowing the addition of custom meta fields in a pretty flexible way beyond the core required schema.</strike>
- Create new `Globals` feature for managing arbitrary app data.
  - Entirely composed of [laravel-metable](https://github.com/plank/laravel-metable)
- Create new `Resources` feature. Allowing a user to create a generic resource with schemaless attributes managed by custom fields.
  - Implement [laravel-metable](https://github.com/plank/laravel-metable) in this feature as well, as it would allow the addition of custom meta fields in a pretty flexible way beyond the core required schema.
- Create a `GraphQL` API using [Lighthouse](https://github.com/nuwave/lighthouse) and corresponding admin section (likely using [GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql)) for previewing the API. _This one is pretty opinionated_ and needs to be in the core (our team at [East Slope Studio](https://eastslope.studio) uses it extensively for our decoupled front-end web and app development projects (built with Eleventy, React, React Native etc.).

---

## Installation

This package can be used with `Laravel 7.x` or higher.

> The following instructions assume a new installation of Laravel with database and mail setup.

```bash
composer require filament/filament dev-master
php artisan migrate
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=filament-seeds
composer dump-autoload
php artisan db:seed --class=FilamentSeeder
```

## Filament User

Before you can use Filament, you must add the necessary `Filament\Traits\FilamentUser` trait to your `App\User` model.

Example:

```php
<?php

namespace App;

use Illuminate\Contracts\Auth\MustVerifyEmail;
use Illuminate\Foundation\Auth\User as Authenticatable;
use Illuminate\Notifications\Notifiable;
use Filament\Traits\FilamentUser;

class User extends Authenticatable
{
    use Notifiable;
    use FilamentUser;

    // ...
}
```

### Create a user

```bash
php artisan filament:user
```

## Create a fieldset

> This feature will eventually allow you to create a fieldset (either core schema fields, or schemaless meta-fields) in your own app for `Users`, `Globals` and `Resources`. More documentation to come as these features are added to the core package.

```bash
php artisan filament:fieldset {name} {--package}
```

---

### Screenshots

- [Login](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/login-darkmode.jpg)
- [Users](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/users-lightmode.jpg)
- [Edit user](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/edit-user-darkmode.jpg)
- [Roles](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/roles-darkmode.jpg)
- [Permissions](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/permissions-darkmode.jpg)
- [Edit permission](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/edit-permission-darkmode.jpg)

Commit message:

archiving notices
Notices for archiving this repository in favor of using Laravel Jetstream.

README.md, after:

> **This Repo is Archived (Read Only)** in favor of using **[Laravel Jetstream](https://jetstream.laravel.com)** (a first-party application scaffolding for Laravel)

![Filament User Listing Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/edit-user-darkmode.jpg)

## Filament

A lightweight admin for your Laravel app.

### Notes

#### Keep it Minimal

The theme of this admin is "Light and Fast" – just enough to get you started and creating your next project – keeping setup to a minimum with hardly any changes to the default Laravel app. Let's use as little Javascript as possible by adhereing to using [Livewire](https://laravel-livewire.com) as much as possible (using [Alpine JS](https://github.com/alpinejs/alpine) when absolutely needed and use [Spruce](https://github.com/ryangjchandler/spruce) for some simple state management between front-end components when absolutely necessary).

#### Roadmap

> **Note**: If you're looking for an application boilerplate that supports the TALL stack, you should check out [Laravel Jetstream](https://github.com/laravel/jetstream). It comes with authentication scaffolding, account management, teams support.

<strike>
> This is more of a proposed feature list then a solid roadmap. I am _totally open_ to new ideas, with the overall goal of keeping this core package pretty minimal allowing total customization via your main Laravel app / additional add-on packages.

- Setup tests (via [Testbench Component](https://github.com/orchestral/testbench)) and start creating them for existing features.
  - _I'm going to be very honest here, I don't know much about testing within a package, so this will be completely new to me and I would really appreciate some help on getting things setup for best practices etc._
- [✓] <strike>Update the `User` model to implement [laravel-metable](https://github.com/plank/laravel-metable), allowing the addition of custom meta fields in a pretty flexible way beyond the core required schema.</strike>
- Create new `Globals` feature for managing arbitrary app data.
  - Entirely composed of [laravel-metable](https://github.com/plank/laravel-metable)
- Create new `Resources` feature. Allowing a user to create a generic resource with schemaless attributes managed by custom fields.
  - Implement [laravel-metable](https://github.com/plank/laravel-metable) in this feature as well, as it would allow the addition of custom meta fields in a pretty flexible way beyond the core required schema.
- Create a `GraphQL` API using [Lighthouse](https://github.com/nuwave/lighthouse) and corresponding admin section (likely using [GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql)) for previewing the API. _This one is pretty opinionated_ and needs to be in the core (our team at [East Slope Studio](https://eastslope.studio) uses it extensively for our decoupled front-end web and app development projects (built with Eleventy, React, React Native etc.).
</strike>

---

## Installation

This package can be used with `Laravel 7.x` or higher.

> The following instructions assume a new installation of Laravel with database and mail setup.

```bash
composer require filament/filament dev-master
php artisan migrate
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=filament-seeds
composer dump-autoload
php artisan db:seed --class=FilamentSeeder
```

## Filament User

Before you can use Filament, you must add the necessary `Filament\Traits\FilamentUser` trait to your `App\User` model.

Example:

```php
<?php

namespace App;

use Illuminate\Contracts\Auth\MustVerifyEmail;
use Illuminate\Foundation\Auth\User as Authenticatable;
use Illuminate\Notifications\Notifiable;
use Filament\Traits\FilamentUser;

class User extends Authenticatable
{
    use Notifiable;
    use FilamentUser;

    // ...
}
```

### Create a user

```bash
php artisan filament:user
```

## Create a fieldset

> This feature will eventually allow you to create a fieldset (either core schema fields, or schemaless meta-fields) in your own app for `Users`, `Globals` and `Resources`. More documentation to come as these features are added to the core package.

```bash
php artisan filament:fieldset {name} {--package}
```

---

### Screenshots

- [Login](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/login-darkmode.jpg)
- [Users](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/users-lightmode.jpg)
- [Edit user](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/edit-user-darkmode.jpg)
- [Roles](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/roles-darkmode.jpg)
- [Permissions](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/permissions-darkmode.jpg)
- [Edit permission](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laravel-filament/filament/master/resources/images/screenshots/edit-permission-darkmode.jpg)
